Blog: add BitGo MuSig2 field report (#1239)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _includes/articles/bitgo-musig2.md

{:.post-meta}
*by [Brandon Black][] from [BitGo][]*

The first [MuSig paper][] was published in 2018, and the potential of
[MuSig][topic musig] on
Bitcoin was one of the selling points used to gain support for the taproot soft
fork. Work on MuSig continued with the publication of [MuSig-DN][] and [MuSig2][] in 2020.
When taproot neared activation on bitcoin’s mainnet in 2021, excitement
about bringing MuSig signing to bitcoin users was palpable. At BitGo, we were
hoping to launch a MuSig taproot wallet concurrent with taproot activation; but
the spec, test vectors, and reference implementation were incomplete. Instead,
BitGo [launched][bitgo blog taproot] the first tapscript multisig wallet and made the [first tapscript
multisig transaction][] on mainnet. Nearly two years later, MuSig2 is specified in
[BIP327][], and we [launched][bitgo blog musig2] the first MuSig taproot multisig wallet.

## Why MuSig2?

### Compared to Script Multisig

There are two main
benefits of MuSig compared to script multisig. The first and most obvious

> benefit is a reduced transaction size and miner fee. On-chain signatures are

Reviewer: Also per our style guide:
```suggestion
benefit is a reduced transaction size and miner fee. Onchain signatures are
```

key path on a collaboratively held output, a cooperative spend cannot be
distinguished by a third party blockchain observer from a single signature
taproot spend.

Naturally, there are some drawbacks to MuSig2. Two important ones revolve around
[nonces](#nonces-deterministic-and-random). Unlike signers for plain ECDSA (elliptic curve digital signature
algorithm) or [Schnorr signatures][topic schnorr signatures], MuSig2 signers cannot consistently use
deterministic nonces. This inability makes it more difficult to ensure
high-quality nonces and to ensure against nonce reuse. MuSig2 requires two
rounds of communication in most cases. First nonce exchange, and then signing.
In some cases, the first round can be precomputed, but this must be undertaken
cautiously.

### Compared to Other MPC protocols

MPC (multi-party compute) signing protocols are growing in popularity due to the
aforementioned fee and privacy benefits. MuSig is a _simple_ multi-signature
(n-of-n) protocol, made possible by Schnorr signatures’ linearity. MuSig2 can be
explained in a 30-minute presentation, and the complete reference implementation

> is 461 textual lines of Python. [Threshold signature][topic threshold signature] (t-of-n) protocols, such as

Reviewer: “Textual lines” throws me off here. It’s lines of code, right?

```suggestion
is 461 lines of code in Python. [Threshold signature][topic threshold signature] (t-of-n) protocols, such as
```

Reviewer 2: I used textual lines because people use many different definitions for "lines of code" are they non-empty lines? non-empty, non-comment lines? 🤷 It's 461 lines in a text editor from top to bottom of the reference implementation.

time is simple and predictable.
- Our MuSig key path includes only the most common signing quorum, “user” /
“bitgo”. Including the “backup” signing key in the key path would significantly
reduce how often it could be used.
- We do not include the “user”, “bitgo” signing pair in the Taptree. As this is
our second taproot script type and the first is a three tapscript design, users
requiring script signing can use the first type.
- For tapscripts, we do not use MuSig keys. Our wallets include a “backup” key
which is potentially difficult to access or signs with software outside of our
control, so expecting to be able to sign MuSig for the “backup” key is not
realistic.
- For tapscripts, we choose `OP_CHECKSIG` / `OP_CHECKSIGVERIFY` scripts over
`OP_CHECKSIGADD`. We know which keys will sign when we construct transactions, and
2-of-2 depth 1 scripts are slightly cheaper than 2-of-3 depth 0.

The final structure looks like this:

{:.center}
![BitGo's MuSig taproot structure](/img/posts/bitgo-musig/musig-taproot-tree.png)

## Nonces (deterministic and random)

Elliptic curve digital signatures are produced with the help of an ephemeral

> secret value known as a nonce (number once). By sharing the public nonce (public

Reviewer: ```suggestion
secret value known as a nonce (number used once). By sharing the public nonce (public
```

This separation can enable more efficient communication during the signing
process. For example, our HSM can respond with a minimal PSBT including only its
nonces or signatures, and they can be combined into the pre-signing PSBT easily.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to Jonas Nick and Sanket Kanjalkar at Blockstream; Dawid Ciężarkiewicz at
Fedi; and [Saravanan Mani][], David Kaplan, and the rest of the team at BitGo.

{% include references.md %}
[Brandon Black]: https://twitter.com/reardencode
[BitGo]: https://www.bitgo.com/
[MuSig paper]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/068
[MuSig-DN]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1057
[MuSig2]: https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1261
[bitgo blog taproot]: https://blog.bitgo.com/taproot-support-for-bitgo-wallets-9ed97f412460
[first tapscript multisig transaction]: https://mempool.space/tx/905ecdf95a84804b192f4dc221cfed4d77959b81ed66013a7e41a6e61e7ed530
[bitgo blog musig2]: https://blog.bitgo.com/save-fees-with-musig2-at-bitgo-3248d690f573
[FROST]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-frost/
[2-party multi-signatures]: https://duo.com/labs/tech-notes/2p-ecdsa-explained
[RFC6979]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6979

> [Dawid]: https://twitter.com/dpc_pw

Reviewer: Did Dawid sign off on being mentioned? He sometimes seems to prefer getting less attention.

Reviewer 3: Always happy to accept any praise. Unless there are any blame parts that I missed. I don't want to be blamed for anything.
